Why did the energy system break down: Freedom fighters fought in revolution, very bloody, many dead, grid broke as a side effect.

Why are the planets so small: Used to bigger, but mysterious space time eruptions broke them down into much smaller pieces. Empire formed shortly after these events, promised unity.

Why are the planets cubes: Engineers worked on stabilizing remaining chunks, created cores that can do this. Chosen form: cubes, because require less energy nodes. Because straight lines.

Why doesn't the laser lose huge amounts of energy over distance: 
1) It does. It's just incredibly powerful.
2) Super duper efficient laser technology
3) Nobody knows, not even where the source comes from

Trees: The fruits the trees bear are poisonous, are biological weapon used by the freedom fighters. Inner monologue: What did freedom fighter actually fight?

One planet was extremely desperate for energy, very grateful

Why are there weird contraptions and and puzzle elements? They serve some greater unknown purpose, built by Empire, people despise them for obstructing planet.

News that interim government turned into real one, no elections, “first rebuild, then let the people decide”. Are now called “Republic of Freedom”.

Player stopped by police, almost thrown out of country for meddling with internal affairs. Show proof that hired worker.

One planet completely dead/empty.

People less talkative since new government.

One planet crazy, obscure. Hints at freedom fighters being EVIL, everyone else loves them

Crazy(?) ominous scientist of the new government, hint at twist

Great plot twist: The laser is a time traveling loop! New Government tries to invalidate cause and effect, cause for great collapse many years ago. They are the same people that founded the Empire.

Final plot twist: Not actually the same. Want to make citizens believe Empire was bad, everything has always been bad, no hope. Actually a farce, time travel impossible, only travel to alternative universe at earlier time. Didn't know. New government gone. Old one too. Everyone alone.  What now? Actual new beginning. A NEW HOPE

Nobody pays the player. Doesn't care, too confused.
